Gaza Palestinians fleeing death and
destruction exhausted by the trauma of
war and overtaken by
grief this is the most brutal chapter of
the Palestinians nakba or catastrophe
that began when Zionist militias
expelled the majority of Palestinians
from their homes in
1948 Today's tragedy has revived nea's
most poignant symbol the key this is
when people were expelled in 1948 they
kept their home keys we're just like
them we hold on to our keys in the hope
that we will return Israel has so far
obliterated upwards of 70% of homes in
Gaza in the ongoing War most of these
families will have no home to return
to the key represents hope for me that
God willing we will return home to
rebuild the key will remain as a better
memory whether it's in Gaza in Exile or
here in the occupied West Bank stories
of homes stolen of lives crushed and of
keys bearing witness are a Common Thread
in the Palestinians experience of
dispossession scars of repeated
destructive Israeli military campaigns
are inescapable in the Janine refugee
camp Abdus salam's home was damaged by
Israeli assaults in 2002 and twice after
that a second home he bought nearby is
also gone only the rubble remains and
he's hesitant to rebuild
again it's like Gaza here we're not even
safe in our homes my brother's home
nearby was struck while he and his
family were inside generations of
refugees here experienced repeated
displacement and loss in their lifetime
fak was 10 when he became a refugee in
1948 he holds on to the key to his
original
home the key evokes enduring bitter
memories but it is also a way to
challenge the occupation it's material
evidence of my land and Home in the
alleys of Janine's camp known here as
small Gaza the promise of return and
rebuilding lives on kept Alive by
patient
persistence n Al jazer Janine refugee
camp
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer